>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now we need to
move one step up, because we don't want
just a static server,
we want something more complicated.
So let's analyze
the architecture of our app.
So we have already mentioned
a couple of things, but
now we will get we will dig
deeper into each of these steps.
So we have the user interface,
we're using HTML, CSS and images.
We're going to use Flexbox to lay out
elements vertically or horizontally.
We will also use template I'm not sure
if you have ever used template before,
the template tag and
the dialog tag, that's for later.
Then we have the front end
the front end is JavaScript base.
We're going to be using events,
web components,
local storage, a router, system,
routes and an API service.
And I know that you still don't
understand how everything fits
together we will get there later, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Will you be including
any testing on the go side?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We will include
testing on the last part, mostly for
the web server, yeah,
the transport layer will be HTTP,
get them, post mainly, and
then JSON on the back end.
That's the part that we
are building right now, it's go.
We will have model repositories,
models, handlers, loggers and
environmental variables, and
we will see what's the be,
what's the responsibility
of each part in a second.
And the database, we have just progress,
progress equal for Foreign keys,
just SQL language.
So this is the whole architecture and
we will repeat this architecture
a couple of times while we are building
each part of the app, okay?
So we have the user interface,
that's HTML, CSS, and images and
YouTube URLs, the user interface
is connected with the front end.
In JavaScript, the front end, we have
a router that will be responsible for
rendering different routes, and
those routes will actually activate
different web components,
like every page, like the home page.
The details, movie, page,
each page we have a web component, and
that web component, at some point,
will actually call an API through an API
service that we have in the front end.
That API service is
just a JavaScript file,
will actually use HTTP to talk to the back
end, the back end, then we have a handler.
There is a handler for file system, that's
the one that we have just developed.
So we already here right now but
also we have handlers for APIs for
example, once you talk to
a modern repository, what's that?
For example, if I want the movie,
there will be a movie repository.
The mobile repository will use TCP to
connect to a post read database that it's
in the cloud, it's in a different server,
I don't know what it is,
that will get the information
from the tables.
We'll populate a model, what's a model,
just a value of type movie, and
it will return that back to
the API service that will actually
update the user interface.
Okay, I know it feels complicated, but
when we actually code every step
one by one, it makes sense, okay?
So just to follow the flow with another
example, let's say we want to the, URL.
So we type, really neat.com so
the first action that we have here
is actually that the browser,
so the user interface is
getting the root folder, okay?
So over HTTP, it goes to the back end,
and the back end realize,
this is for a static so I will just
serve the file as we did with the HTML,
okay, so that's simple.
So then it that it takes the index HTML
from the file system, from the Public
folder, and sends it back to the browser,
and the browser is rendering the HTML.
We don't have this one yet, but
we will at one point, and but
let's say now the user goes, and
clicks on Deadpool clicks in one movie.
Okay, so
what's the flow in our architecture?
Actually, what will happen is that click
will kinda change the URL client side,
and it will go to, for
example, forward/movies,
forward/ the ID of the movie
let's say it's 234.
And that goes directly to the router,
what's a router?
Is that something from the browser?
No, it's something that we will create.
It's a service, it's just a class,
an object that we will have
JavaScript side that we will call from
scratch that will actually read that URL,
change and say, okay,
I need to see what to do now.
Okay, so it will actually
check in the in the routes,
and the routes will tell them,
hey, for that URL,
you need to create the web
component movie details page.
So it will create that component it
will create a new instance of it.
First, we will code everything,
and that web component will
need the data from that movie.
So it will ask an API to a server,
hey, I need the details of that movie,
so it makes another get, and
that goes to the movie handler.
Again, what's a handler?
It's a value in go that handles one
particular route, one particular URL.
So we will have a movie handler,
they will say, that's mine.
It's asking me for
the details of a movie, I will do that.
So that movie handler will actually
call the model repository,
for example, get movie,
hey, I need a movie.
So I know that I'm handling the URL of
a movie, now I need the data from a movie.
Getmovie is the one that
makes the SELECT or
the query from the database.
It's downloading the data and
it's populating the model, so
it's creating a movie with all its
properties coming from the table.
We will close this, and then we will
come back to the diagram to see that
this is the flow that
we are actually using.
So when we have the movie at the back end,
we actually need to
convert that into JSON and
respond with that JSON so
it goes back to the front end.
And then the front end will, for
example, design the HTML with that data,
with, for example,
an article HTML element and finally,
we will see in action
the details of the movie.
Okay, so that's kinda the architecture
that we will be building for
a full stack application.
We can create a simpler solution
with less steps, yes, it's possible.
But with this architecture,
we have different layers of abstraction.
So it's easy in the future to update
the app, to create new features for
this app,
because if we wanna create a new Page,
we create a new route, and
the whole system will work.
Okay, because if not, we can create
just everything in one go file,
everything in one JS file and
everything will work.
But it's going to be too tied together
to this particular problem, and
it's gonna be difficult to scale and
maintain the future.
So, that's why we
are creating this diagram, so
we are separating concerns both
in the client and in the server.
Again, this is an overview I'm not
expecting you to now understand everything
that we see there, but later,
we will be building each part separately.
That's a full stack architecture,
one possible full stack architecture for
our app.
We have already started with the back end.
We've seen that we
are using Go 1.20,1.24 but
one of the problems that we have is that
every time we make a change on the server,
we have to restart the server,
and that's really annoying.
So we will be writing a lot of Go files.
Every time we add new file,
every time we make a change,
we need to use Ctrl+C and
run the server again,
this is a normal problem in Go,
also in other frameworks as well.
So that's why we are going to use a
community based tool known as AR that will
we automatically restart the server
when we change the files.
This is similar to nodemon on the node
side, so it's monitoring the file system.
And if the file system changes, it stops
the process and run it again, okay?
So in that case, everything will be easier
for us, so then we are just code and
go, we save a file, and
the server automatically restarts, and
it will take those changes, okay?
Makes sense?
We will see how to do that in second,
but you will need to go on,
install air, it depends if you're
on Windows, Linux, or Mac.
The way to install it differs but
one quick way to do that
is installing it through directly go
I will show you that in a minute.
And we already mentioned
that we will be using go.m,
p sheet is the one for Postgres SQL,
okay, and that's all, okay.
Let's go back here to the backend, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Will you be rendering
the web pages server side for
SEO or is it gonna be all client side?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: In this course,
we are only doing single page application.
There is another course, an intermediate
course, that takes this particular
project, and it's also making
server side rendering as a pattern,
for example, to increase SEO
search engine optimization.
So if you wanna see how to do that or
how to mix both client and
server side,
check the intermediate course.